# BOLT ARCHITECTURE - Component based Model-View-Controller (MVC)

![bolt architecture](https://github.com/hartsfield/bolt/assets/30379836/b1f68fc2-b418-4bbf-b2aa-3575165d77cb)

# BOLT

Bolt is not a third-party dependency, `bolt` is a Go program that generates the 
scaffolding for a web app using a component based model-view-controller 
architecture, and generates server code and other files that are useful for 
rapid prototyping and development. Bolt also has other features useful for 
rapid development. 

Bolt has no third-party dependencies. 

NOTE: Bolt is under heavy development and is still considered beta. Currently 
bolt can be used to build single-page static websites, but in the future, bolt 
will be able to aid in the development of large dynamic websites, and also help
generate code for forms and database models. 

## Quickstart

 - Create a bolt app:
 
        $ mkdir boltapp
        $ cd boltapp
        $ bolt
 - Create a component and insert it into the main page:
        
        $ bolt --new-component=test && bolt --insert-component=test
 - Add a new route and handler:

        $ bolt --new-route=path,handlerName
 - Routes can be registered manually in `router.go`

# More info

## Features in progress
 - Generate basic scaffolding to begin building a web app
 - Tooling to speed up the process of creating generic web components
 - Convert data modeled in CSV into code for forms and basic database procedures
 - Install components from third party git repos


The structure of a bolt app looks like this:

    > .
         ├── internal
         │   ├── components
         │   │   ├── footer
         │   │   │   ├── footer.css
         │   │   │   ├── footer.js
         │   │   │   └── footer.tmpl
         │   │   └── head
         │   │       └── head.tmpl
         │   ├── pages
         │   │   └── main
         │   │       └── main.tmpl
         │   └── shared
         │       ├── css
         │       │   └── main.css
         │       └── js
         │           └── main.js
         ├── public
         │   └── media
         ├── autoload.sh
         ├── bolt_conf.json
         ├── Dockerfile
         ├── globals.go
         ├── handlers.go
         ├── helpers.go
         ├── logging.go
         ├── main.go
         ├── restart-service.sh
         ├── server.go
         └── viewdata.go
         
         12 directories, 18 files

A bolt app is composed of html templates called `pages` and `components`. `pages`
are typically composed of components, and components can also be composed of
other components. 

Bolt will also generate some basic server code and build files to begin the 
process of rapid prototyping and development. 

By running the following, we can visit the website generated by the previous 
command:

    ./autoload boltapp 9001
    Server started @ http://localhost:9001

Visit `localhost:9001` in your web browser and you should see the following:

![Screenshot from 2023-07-21 19-07-26](https://github.com/hartsfield/bolt/assets/30379836/832f4789-9212-4af9-9d00-594043bfaa41)

To automatically create a navigation bar using bolt, run the following:

    bolt --autonav=section1,section2,section3

Now visit `localhost:9001` and you should see the following:

![Screenshot from 2023-07-21 19-28-08](https://github.com/hartsfield/bolt/assets/30379836/51c8d948-e086-4d4c-bb90-67f1590b8030)

This command generated a navigation bar component, and three other components, 
one for each section. These components are also added to the main `page`. The 
sections have no content yet, so can't be seen, but the boiler plate code to 
begin their creation has been generated.

Components are stored in `internal/components`, and are composed of three files,
one for javascript, another for css, and a .tmpl file which is html with golang 
template directives.

    > .
         ├── internal
         │   ├── components
         │   │   ├── footer
         │   │   │   ├── footer.css
         │   │   │   ├── footer.js
         │   │   │   └── footer.tmpl


Once a component is created, it must then be added to a `page` by specifying it 
in a template directive.

Now lets add a splash page to our website:

    bolt --autosplash=test.jpg

This command will generate a splash page with the `companyName` shown in front 
of `test.jpg`. Place an image named `test.jpg` in `public/media`, and you should 
see the following:

You can generate a new, empty component, called `test1` with the following 
command:

    bolt --new-component=test1


![Untitled drawing (4)](https://github.com/hartsfield/bolt/assets/30379836/b551f0d4-53e5-4309-b7d7-9fc26b7eaa76)
